## Recommendations from LinkedIn

**Alexsandro Fonseca, (PhD in Cognitive Computing. Data Scientist: NLP, AI, Semantic Search, Knowledge Graph)** *Ludovic has a brilliant, curious and analytical mind. He is very able to understand complex problems and extract the deep meaning of concepts, structures and data. Combined with his incredible skills in NLP and machine learning, he is capable of bringing invaluable insights for any project he participates.*

**Jean-Guy Meunier, (Professor of Text analytics and Cognitive computing @ Université du Québec à Montréal)** *The expertise of Ludovic is at the cutting-edge of artificial intelligence applied to information and knowledge database construction, management and recommendation. However, his personal and original signature is his high competence in the two main domains underlying this field : linguistics and computer science. He masters in a scholarly and practical manner the complexity of analyzing texts, of extracting their semantic and communicative content. On the other side, he is highly skilled for translating these tasks into many and most intelligent data mining and learning algorithms.*

**Sophie Callies PhD, (Learning Addict - R&D and Training Manager at Brainiak)** *Ludovic was a very serious Ph.D. student, and very kind and always eager to help other students. I can only recommend him!*

**Francis Sesmonde, (iWintoo - by CXu)** *Ludovic has the capacity and vision to absorb and foresee trends in data science, machine learning and natural language processing to bring R&D insights to facilitate software solutions development. His inputs are helping our engineering team to build a highly efficient data platform driven by core business needs. You will save time with his recommendations, his previous works and publications will give a quick framework to your objectives and accelerate the pace of your data science works. I highly recommend Ludovic for linguistics, semantics, natural language processing, machine learning, and data science R&D.*

**Stevan Harnad, (Professor of Cognitive Science @ University of Southampton)** *Ludovic is doing his doctoral dissertation under my direction. His work is on ways of optimizing the titles of articles to make them more effective for understanding as well as for search. He has many promising ideas and is working hard to implement and test them. He is motivated and energetic, at ease with the relevant research literature in both French and English.*

**Daniel Lemire, (Computer Science Professor @ Université du Québec (TELUQ))** *M. Bocken is a highly creative and enthusiastic researcher. He seems to have an endless supply of energy and initiative. His exceptional eagerness sets him apart.*

**Gael Larregaray, (Senior Project Manager @ Mastercard MEA)** *Mr. Bocken was one of the few teachers during my studies in Brussels who showed motivation, patience and dedication to his duties. Besides his implication in several courses and student projects, he has always been helpful and has always looked beyond text books and theories to find suitable solutions. He was also very alert about new techniques, technologies and theories centered on communications and showed great passion for his field, which he communicated through his various classes. Also, while remaining discreet, calm and fair, Mr. Bocken showed great leadership skills and did not hesitate to shake things a little to make us go forward. I wish Mr. Bocken great success and I strongly believe that he will achieve his goals with ease.*

**Kristin Stuke, (Senior Product Development Manager at GALVmed)** *Ludovic is a very talented and enthusiastic French teacher and I fully recommend taking lessons with him.*

**Sarah Cruz, (Supervisor at Dedicated)** *He was my teacher for two years. I learned a lot of skills with him. He taught us the mind maping, really usefull for student and not well known. I also discoverd the use of Moodle. He was always avalaible for us. As a person, he's atentive, advisor and he has a natural leadership.*

**Benoît De Smet, (Advisory Manager at Deloitte Belgium)** *I had the pleasure to be Ludovic's student for three years when he was a teacher at Ilya Prigogine School, in the Public Relations Department. During those three years he showed excellent teaching, communication and interpersonal skills. Along with those skills, he has an innovative way of thinking and teaching supported by his endless motivation. He is committed to his job and is always reaching out to people to get to know them and how they work in order to go for the extra mile. He's a great asset to every company/school, both on a personal and professional level.*

**Shabnam Agneessens, (Producer / Audiovisual Project Manager at Emakina.BE SA)** *I had Mr. Bocken as teacher. He was excellent as much at educational than human level. He taught us a lot and he was invested in several of our educational projects. He was always available to his students and constantly trying to find new tools to engage them through their courses, that's so precious!*

**Cédrick Fairon, (Full Professor at UCL, Dean of the Faculty of Philosophy, Arts and Letters, Director of CENTAL)** *I first met Ludovic when he was a student in Linguistics and he started to be interested in Natural Language Processing. He took several of my courses and I remember him as a very dynamic and creative student, impassionate by language studies and quite energized by new technologies. Ludovic has a rich and original academic background that reveals his broad interest for human communication (psychology, philosophy, linguistics, language technologies) and more specifically for language teaching and didactic. He is now a seasoned language professional with a strong experience in high-education teaching and technology-enhanced learning. Interestingly, his current research interests focus on ‘enhanced-reading’ in an approach that combines aspects of psycholinguistics and computational linguistics. Ludovic has the background and the all the personal skills needed for successfully engaging in this complex research. I look forward discovering his results.*

**Frank DeFelice, (President and Principal, Health and Innovation Strategies)** *I was fortunate to have Ludovic as my french language instructor while working in Brussels. He helped me to achieve a greater proficiency in french. He takes teaching seriously and is persistent in getting results. This combined with strong interpersonal skills and an upbeat teaching approach encouraged learning. I looked forward to the lessons and our varied and interesting discussions in french.*

**Anne Coenen, (Mentor chez DUO for a JOB)** *Ludovic has been very active to disseminate mind-mapping among his students and colleagues. He showed a lot of commitment and seriousness in the implementation and the use of e-campus.*

**Min-Jin Courier, (Office Manager - Euralia)** *Ludovic Boken has been my teacher for a year. From the first class, I saw an ability and motivation to teach useful subjects on a professional level. The presented notions have been and are still a great support in my current position.*

**Jean-Louis Craenhals, (Enseignant et Sophrologue)** *I really appreciated the collaboration that we had during the implementation of the e-learning platform for the HELB.*

**Anne-Rosine Delbart, (Enseignante de langue vivante et chargée de cours à l'Université Libre de Bruxelles)** *As part of his Master in French and Romance Languages and Literature (French as a Foreign Language - FFL option) in 2010, Ludovic Bocken took my courses: "Linguistic Approach of FFL writing", "Compared linguistic structures", "FFL Seminar", "Teacher Training". I just only commend the quality of examinations and oral/written works of this student. His FFL Mastercurriculum was guided by the desire to provide new methods of teaching and learningFrench (with "e-learning"). I had the pleasure to read his dissertation "The notion of type in FFL: from classroom practice to educational data mining". I was impressed by the regularity and reliability of his involvement in the work. This work has received an excellent score of 18/20. The quality of his student career, the candidate's maturity, the originality of the research topic will give him a brilliant future, I'm sure! It's with great enthusiasm and confidence that I recommend Ludovic Bocken!*

**Ann Goossens, (Expert in Public Relations - 37 years of teaching experience at Haute Ecole Libre de Bruxelles-Ilya Prigogine)** *As coordinator of the Public Relations section of the HELB Ilya Prigogine, I could follow Ludovic Bocken in his teaching load. This allowed me to appreciate his excellent intellectual level, his capacity for reflection and analysis as well as his amazing ability to synthesize. He was able to quickly handle difficult situations, to question and adapt to different groups of students. As a teacher, I could appreciate human qualities of Ludovic Bocken. He developed new and efficient ways to teach, manage, and evaluate students in practical, theoretical, electronic context. He is a very dynamic and involved colleague, full of energy and works with availability at all challenges. His communicative skills and his pragmatic, intellectual and technical leadership convince me that it's a man to give responsibilities as a team leader in innovation, knowledge and change management projects. For instance, strategies he proposed were accepted by several institutions to build Competencies dictionary in Communication and Public Relations for the Brussels Wallonia European University Centre.*

**Christine Collin, (Support eCampus (Moodle) chez HELB Ilya Prigogine)** *Enthusiastic, dynamic, generous, such are the adjectives that come to mind when I mention Ludovic Bocken as a former colleague. He brought a real boost to our department. The fact that he leaved is a real loss. In three years we train reflective professionals in Public Relations who can work independently and with high communication skills and office. Regarding training is subsidized by the French Community (Belgium, Wallonia-Brussels Federation), the emphasis is first placed on communication skills in French, completed some skills in English, Dutch, Spanish and / or German. Our school is characterized by a socio-culturally heterogeneous student population, for whom French is a second language often even a foreign language (youth from countries of the former Eastern Europe, Africa, Turkey, Morocco ...). Mr. Bocken developed a teaching that leads these young people to acquire the skills described above by many creative ways: didactic teaching scenarios and sequences that make sense (projects), education of the error analysis (rather than punish), alternating oral-written reflection on learning and self-assessment, discussion and work on intercultural differences and similarities, group works, ... Mr. Bocken is also marked out by its innovative spirit. Indeed it is on his initiative that the Economy category has established a virtual campus through which the teaching of languages was a turning point in our institution: provision of multimedia resources for students and new spaces to exchange (collaborative editing, forums, wikis), automated testing, ... Mr. Bocken also convinced the Board of Directors that a team sensitizes and trains the teachers of all classes of the High School for the use of the virtual campus (teaching myself French and Spanish, I owe to Mr. Bocken to have revitalized my teaching through the use of "new technologies").*

**Laurie Chojnacki, (Product Manager at Sony Music Entertainment)** *I have known Ludovic Bocken as teacher at Ilya Prigogine School, in the Public Relations Department. As one of its student, I can say that he was an excellent teacher, very motivating, attentive to his students and had strong skills of pedagogical approaches. He had excellent interpersonal skills. He passed down his knowledges with passion and conviction. His methods of teaching were efficient and stimulating. His explanations were always clear and interesting. It was always good to have a dicussion with him, he was open minded and his answers were always very constructive. He is passionated about his projects and really involved in his work.*

**Jonathan Adriaens, (Executive Assistant to CFO chez ADRIAENS SPRL)** *Ludovic Bocken was a teacher in the Brussels Wallonia European University Centre and did a great job in offering new ways of communication, structure, organization and sharing. These tools and knowledge, always used in the context of the intellectual elevation of his students are always present. Mr. Bocken was a pioneer in our section of Communication and Public Relations, including the establishment of links between many disciplines: computer science and communication, Moodle E-campus and educational management, project management and neuro-linguistic programming. As president of the Association ALUMNI HELB-IP and former student I would like to thank Mr. Bocken for his ideas, his involvement as well as his legacy in our institution. Proactive and intelligent, I have no doubt that he will face other challenges in the field of education and professional training.*

**Takas P., (Relation Manager Portfolio Clients, Senior Advisor Life/Non Life Insurance & Easy Housing Expert @ BNP Paribas Fortis)** *As student of Mr Bocken during 3 years at the Haute Ecole Libre of Brussels, I had the opportunity to benefit from his high skills in teaching, information analysis and communication. Mr Bocken was always attentive to his student's requests and questions and used to find the best solutions in order to resolve their issues concerning their works, events or presentation. I think that one of his most important quality is his communication ability and his persuasion. He also have an impressive computer knowledge especially in mindmapping programs.*

**Michèle Lauwers, (J'accompagne les indépendants et petites entreprises à intégrer de la Prévention Santé et Bien Etre au travail.)** *I had Ludovic in my team and as colleague for several years. His leadership is real, his logic arguments and the benefits of his work are rich and helpful. He is nice and present for his students and colleagues. With a lot of ideas, he has always been involved in developing professional abilities for him and his environment, improve quality and organization as well in his courses as in institutional challenges. He builds innovative frames, strategies and tools to optimize tasks in the best deadlines and analyses situations according to the structure where he works. He is the dynamic, skilled, intelligent and creative partner to have!*

**Divin Robert Mahame, (Editorial Coordinator @ ICF Next)** *I had Ludovic Bocken as teacher to learn French and of Methodology at Haute Ecole Libre de Bruxelles Ilya Prigogine. He is close to the students and very professional in his way of teaching. Its course of Methodology was particularly interesting. Ludovic is also very specialized in design and management of Moodle platforms. I recommend him highly!*

**Marc Henri De Bruyne, (Founding Consultant at VADEMECOM & ComUnity.pro)** *I had the pleasure and the frequent benefit to rub shoulders with Ludovic in the Haute Ecole Libre de Bruxelles. His passion for the imbroglio that is our brain and the wonders it produces has always impressed me. Finding your way through the maze of biology, psychology, electronics, chemistry, cybernetics, computing and linguistics pertains to uncommon gymnastics (hey ... it also ends in 'ic' ...;-). Ludovic is a brilliant mind, sharp and as well able to 'crack' the complex code of a reasoning than simply explain the phenomenon. Given his young age, his charm and what he has done to date, I recommend to follow him closely...*

**Sandrine Tezzo, (Head Of Digital Marketing chez Altavia ACT)** *Ludovic was my teacher during my Public Relations studies in Brussels. He made his courses particularly interesting by innovating, changing the ways of teaching and making his courses very attractive because interactive. He had always new ideas, created attractive material course and made us discover many new ways of studying and thinking. In my current professional life I can say that I use many of Ludovic's teachings.*

**Sylvain Coppens, (4G & 5G network solutions focus for Industry & Public Safety)** *Ludovic Bocken has been one of my professor and it was always a pleasure to work with someone who is always motivated, involved, and gives good advices. I still use some of his tips in my professionnal life.*

**Fabrice Medol, (Teacher at HELB Prigogine)** *I had the pleasure to be Ludovic's colleague. He is really involved in what he does and always tries to innovate. This little extra makes the difference.*

**Hervé van Wayenberge, (Director IT Retail, Digital, Marketing, Infrastructure & Support at Delhaize Belgium)** *Passionate to learn and eager to share, Ludovic demonstrated a pragmatic intellectualism being a major enabler in his pedagogical approach.*

**Françoise Vandeville, (Associated Professor (maître assistant) at HELB Ilya Prigogine)** *Ludovic used to be my colleague at the HELB. I especially appreciated his energy, openness, tolerance, his innovative side and level of abstraction. I also had the opportunity to read documents written by him. Although I found them highly thought, complete, of a high intellectual level easy and they were enjoyable to read because so clear. I wish him a great academic career. He deserves it! "*

**Ladislas de Haut de Sigy, (Recruitment Supervisor EMEA at Global LT)** *I hired Ludovic to work with our clients in 2011 and since then have had nothing but positive feedback from all of them (as you can see from other recommendations below). He has not only demonstrated to be a true professional on all aspects of language training but also on his personal and human approach with the learners. We consider Ludovic to be a true asset to our company and will continue to work with him as long as his shedule allows.*

**Mónica Escalada, (Associate Director Regulatory Affairs en Zoetis)** *I has been assigned Ludovic as French teacher specialized in foreign languages for business and personal development purposes. He is really focused on reaching the learning goals of his pupils with flexible and creative approaches. You can appreciate his strong linguistic and humanistic academic background, as well as appropriate manners. I strongly recommend Ludovic due to his professionality, results achived and personal skills.*
